http://www-itg.lbl.gov/Frog/

   [frog.skeleton.logo.gif]

  Computer-Enhanced Science Education: The Whole Frog Project

   Computers can't teach everything in anatomy, but they can teach some
   things better, either by themselves or through synergy with
   conventional methods. Try out this award-winning virtual frog- as a
   case in point.
     * Jump right into the Interactive Frog Dissection Kit. [Interact.gif]
          + Sample images from the virtual frog dissection kit:
            Example 1 viewable GIF file..
            Example 1 printable TIF file..
            Example 2 viewable GIF file..
            Example 2 printable TIF file..
     * Read an introductory lecture on the Whole Frog project that
       explains its pedagogical and technological basis, or a summary
       paper that emphasizes its Web aspects.
     * For live frog lovers .... Sounds of North American Frogs (a CD from
       Smithsonian Folkways).

  "Whole Frog" Project

     * Introduction
     * Example Study Outline on 3D Reconstruction
     * The Technique for Acquiring and Processing the Frog Data
     * Examples of Reconstructions of Other Organisms
     * 3D Reconstruction of the Frog's Anatomy
     * Rotating, Transparent Frog Movie
     * Available Image Data
     * Credits
     * Copyright Notice
     * Forms-based virtual frog dissection
     * WWW '94 Paper on virtual frog dissection (html)
     * IEEE Compcon 1995 Paper: Using the World Wide Web to Provide a
       Platform Independent Interface to High Performance Computing (html)
       IEEE Compcon 1995 Paper (Postscript)
     Back to ITG home page
     * Visit the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory home page

INTRODUCTION The ITG "Whole Frog" project is intended to introduce the concepts
of modern, computer based 3D visualization, and at the same time to demonstrate
the power of whole body, 3D imaging of anatomy as a curriculum tool. The goal of
the Whole Frog Project is to provide high school biology classes the ability to
explore the anatomy of a frog by using data from high resolution MRI imaging and
from mechanical sectioning, together with 3D surface and volume rendering
software to visualize the anatomical structures of the intact animal. Ultimately
we intend to be able to "enter the heart and fly down blood vessels, poking our
head out at any point to see the structure of the surrounding anatomy". A
summary of this may be found in: LBL "Whole Frog" Project Summary .

EXAMPLE STUDY OUTLINE ON 3D RECONSTRUCTION The secondary goal of this project is
to introduce the concepts of modeling and displaying 3D structures directly from
3D images obtained, for example, from MRI imaging (biological specimens), X-ray
CT imaging (industrial imaging of non-biological objects), and direct generation
from mathematical descriptions. This approach is being developed in conjunction
with summer programs involving high school teachers and students. For more
information see Geometric Analysis, Visualization, and Conceptualization of 3D
Image Data .

THE TECHNIQUE FOR ACQUIRING AND PROCESSING THE FROG DATA For a variety of
technical reasons relating to differences between mammalian and amphibian
physiology, the resolution of MRI images of a frog were not good enough to
clearly separate internal structures. A high resolution data set was obtained by
a mechanical sectioning technique that gave sufficient resolution to see detail
down to the level of large nerves. Example of mechanical slice data:
[frog.mechanical.logo.gif]

   For a report on the mechanical sectioning and associated data
   collection issues, please see Whole Frog Technical Report.

EXAMPLES OF RECONSTRUCTIONS OF OTHER ORGANISMS High resolution MRI studies of
several plants were done as part of this project, with an orange forming the
basis of the 3D reconstruction study unit. Images of reconstructed tomato:
[tomato-small.gif]

3D RECONSTRUCTION OF THE FROG'S ANATOMY

   Examples of frog reconstructions: [frog.skeleton-small.gif]

   Example 2 of frog reconstruction. (TIF file)

   Example 3 of frog reconstruction. (TIF file)

ROTATING, TRANSPARENT FROG MOVIE

The following are two different encodings of the same sequence.

MPEG movie of frog rotating (769 KBytes)

Quicktime (JPEG compressed) movie of frog rotating (1,862 KBytes)

AVAILABLE IMAGE DATA Two kinds of data are used in the 3D reconstructions: slice
images (example slice), and masks (example mask). Slice images are a sequence of
sections through the object of interest. These slices may be obtained directly
as in mechanical slicing, or by tomographic reconstruction. The masks are a
geometric representation of objects of interest and are obtained by
"segmentation" of the images. (This can be done manually, or using image
processing techniques.)

The following describes how to get all of the data that went into the images and
reconstructions illustrated in this document.

The "data" behind the 3D models (e.g. of the frog) are images of slices through
the original object, and "masks" that define various regions of interest
(anatomical systems, in the case of the frog).

-----

Monochrome slice images:

The slice image data are in two different formats: "raw" (no header) monochrome
images with a file format: each pixel is an unsigned byte, and the scan lines
are stored row-wise. For each data set there is a file called *.hd that
describes the number and size of the images. The slice image files contain all
slices for a given organism. For example, the frog slice image data set is 470 x
500 x 1Byte x 136 images. So each 500 bytes from this dataset represents one
scan line of the slice image.

For example, using PBM:

   Get frame one:
   rawtopgm 256 256 < tomato.data > frame1

   Get frames one to four into a single image:
   rawtopgm 256 1024 < tomato.data >frame1-4

   Get frame two (skip over all of frame one):
   rawtopgm -headerskip 65536 256 256 < tomato.data > frame2

   Get frame three (skip over frames one and two):
   rawtopgm -headerskip 131072 256 256 < tomato.data > frame3

   etc.

   These files are available via anonymous ftp from www-itg.lbl.gov

   -----

   Color slice images of the frog:

   This is the original data obtained by cryotome slicing of the frog. The
   images are in Utah Raster Toolkit format,

   and are available via anonymous ftp.

   -----

   MRI data:

   The orange, tomato, pumpkin, and rat data are only available as MRI -
   the rat dataset is not high quality.

   The MRI data corresponding to the section data for the frog is also
   included. However, this MRI data is also not very high quality. (The
   speculation is that iron pigments in the frog's skin interfere with the
   MRI.) This data are available via anonymous ftp.

   Many of the MRI images (as the tomato is) may require normalization or
   histogram equalization in order to "see" much in an image displayed on
   the screen. E.g.:
   rawtopgm 256 1024 < tomato.data | pgmnorm |
   your_favorite_display_program

   -----

   Mask data:

   The masks have the same format and size as the "raw" data and are
   tar-ed in "*.MASK.tar". Both the masks and the data are compressed
   using the Unix compress utility. (The masks are really one-bit images,
   but are stored in 8-bit/pixel format. This means that they expand
   enormously when uncompressed.)

   These files are available via anonymous ftp.

   -----

   Misc:

   Some Sun rasterfile screen dumps of 3D reconstructions done by
   raycasting are stored in "*.IMAGES.tar". This is available via
   anonymous ftp.

   -----

   In general, all data may be obtained via anonymous ftp from
   www-itg.lbl.gov (128.3.196.93).

     * FROG: /pub/Whole.Frog/frog/*
     * ORANGE: /pub/Whole.Frog/orange/*
     * TOMATO: /pub/Whole.Frog/tomato/*
     * PUMPKIN: /pub/Whole.Frog/pumpkin/*
     * RAT: /pub/Whole.Frog/rat/*

   Note: The orange, tomato, pumpkin, and rat data are only available as
   MRI - the rat data is not high quality.

CREDITS This work was done at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and was
sponsored by the U. S. Dept. of Energy, Energy Research Division, Mathematical,
Information, and Computational Sciences Division , John Cavallini program
manager. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory is operated by the University of
California for DOE under contract DE-AC03-76SF00098

   Thanks to the many people that made this project possible:

LBL Center for Science and Engineering Education

     * Rollie Otto, Director
     * Eileen Engel
     * Summer teachers (TRAC program)
          + Darrel Richter
          + V. Newton
          + Ana L. Padilla
          + Bea Alexander
          + Miguel Rivas
          + Kris Sahu

LBL Research Medicine Division (now Functional Imaging Group)

     * Dr. Tom Budinger (for showing us the potential of high resolution
       MRI)
     * Mark Roos and Sam Wong (who did the MRI imaging)
     * Katie Brennan (for "Fluffy")
     * Anat Biegon (for the use of her Cryotome)

University of California, Berkeley, Biology Dept.

     * Dr. Paul Licht (a specialist in amphibian anatomy, for his
       consulting)
     * Craig Logan (anatomy student who did most of the frog masks)

Computer Science Students

     * Wing Nip, San Francisco State University (now at Sun Microsystems)

Imaging and Distributed Computing Group Staff

     * David Robertson produced the interactive frog dissection kit
     * William Johnston conceived and guided the Whole Frog Project.

COPYRIGHT NOTICE Copyright (c) 1994 by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory

The images, data, and documents of the "Whole Frog Project" are copyrighted by
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. These materials are provided for the
purpose of scientific research and education by Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory. Any commercial use of these materials requires prior permission from
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. For further information contact


    William Johnston (510-486-5014, wejohnston@lbl.gov).
