http://www.dol.gov/dol/vets/

   U.S. DOL - Veterans' Employment and Training Service

[TEXT ONLY]              Search New Additions
About VETS
Library
FOIA READING ROOM
Laws & Regs
News Room
Veterans Opportunities
Programs/Services
Veterans Preference
userra/advisor
Federal Contractor

                           __________________________________________________________________

            FREDERICO JUARBE JR. SWORN IN AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY

   Assistant Secretary

   Frederico Juarbe Jr. shares a light moment with his wife and Senator
   Chuck Hagel after being sworn in as assistant secretary at the Labor
   Department's Salute To All American Veterans.
     __________________________________________________________________

                       VETS 100 Final Rule in Effect.

   The VeteransÂ’ Employment and Training Service (VETS) amended its
   regulations implementing the VETS-100 reporting requirement on October
   11, 2001 (66 FR 51998). This rule went into effect on November 13,
   2001. It has been brought to the attention of VETS that the final rule
   may have inadvertently increased the record keeping burden on some
   contractors with regard to how Federal contractors filing the report
   are to calculate the maximum and minimum number of employees. VETS will
   address this concern by amending this specific part of the final rule
   in the near future.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Employers of, and employees who are, members of the National Guard or
Reserves may access information relative to their rights and responsibilities
by clicking on the USERRA graphic below. (USERRA rights and responsibilities)

   U.S. Chamber of Commerce WEB Cast 12/17/2001

   What Employers Need to Know About Military Leaves of Absence and the
   Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994

   View the Chamber Cast Now!

        Employers - some of your workers may be called to active duty

 Reservists - you have reemployment rights after your military tour of duty

                  Know your rights and responsibilities!!!

A clearly written, simplified, 19-page, guide to the USERRA law which may be
                   downloaded in Adobe Acrobat pdf format.

   USERRA RESOURCE GUIDE
     __________________________________________________________________

   PROVIDING 21st CENTURY SERVICES TO
   ALL VETERANS WHO SERVED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES
   "SLIDE PRESENTATION"
   [budget.jpg]
     __________________________________________________________________

   {short description of image}

                       2000 Annual Report to Congress

2000 Annual Report to Congress, describing employment and training programs
for veterans' during program year 1998 (July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999
and fiscal year 1999) and fiscal year 1999 (October 1, 1998 through September
30, 1999).

   PART 1 - PART 2
     __________________________________________________________________

                         Contract Awards Information
     __________________________________________________________________

              Use Your Military Experience and Training (UMET)

   {short description of image}

Use Your Military Experience and Training (UMET) If you are a servicemember
or veteran looking for a civilian job, you should know that, depending on
your occupational area, you may need a license or certificate in order to
obtain a job in the civilian work force. Use Your Military Experience and
Training (UMET) is a web site designed to make it easier for current and
former military personnel to obtain the licenses and certifications they need
to practice in the civilian work force. The site provides important
information about licensure and certification requirements as they apply to
military personnel. It also provides useful information for employers seeking
access to a qualified pool of skilled labor, and credentialing board
officials who would like to learn more about how to assess the comparability
of military and civilian training.
     __________________________________________________________________

                        {short description of image}

                           ATB-VETS Resume Writer

The Military Resume Writer is an electronic resume system designed especially
for transitioning veterans. Once implemented, employers will be able to find
qualified veterans to fill job openings.
     __________________________________________________________________

                    "Veterans Affairs" Homeless Veterans

                                [homles.jpg]

     About one-third of the adult homeless population have served their
     country in the the Armed Services. On any given day, as many as
     250,000 veterans are living on the streets or in shelters, and
     perhaps twice as many experience homelessness at some point during
     the course of a year. Many other veterans are considered near
     homeless or at risk because of their poverty, lack of support from
     family and friends, and dismal living conditions in cheap hotels or
     in overcrowded or substandard housing.
     __________________________________________________________________

                               [cfactory.jpg]

               Federal Contractor Veterans' Employment Queries
     __________________________________________________________________

   FY 2001 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
   PREFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
     __________________________________________________________________

    Last Updated:
   November 13, 2001
   -- Privacy and Security Statement --
   -- DISCLAIMER --
   Feedback, Questions and Comments

   divider line

   Return to DOL Home DOL Home Page | Return to top of document Top of
   Document
