http://www.ivsbdc.ca.gov/personel.htm

   Center Personel



Home
Counseling
Objectives
Seminars/Training
Imperial County
Resource Center
Center Personel
Contact Us
links


   [23.gif]

Management & Staff

The Imperial Valley Small Business Development Center is comprised of a
manager, a senior project clerk, a project clerk, a clerical assistant and
the consultants.  The management and staff are trained to deal with our
diverse population and bring their varied background and experiences to the
center.

Larry Baker is the current Interim Manager for the center.  He began working
with the SBDC as a part-time consultant and has moved up to take on a
leadership role for the center.  Mr. Baker holds a Masters of Business
Administration as well as Bachelors degrees in both Marketing and Spanish.
He completed a portion of his Masters degree at a university in Mexico and is
familiar with the culture and its people.  Before coming to the SBDC Mr.
Baker worked in telecommunications, retail and sales.  In addition to his
duties at the SBDC, Mr. Baker also teaches seminars in English and Spanish on
Sales and Marketing through CANACINTRA, the Mexican Industrial Chamber of
Commerce.

Bernardo Beltran is the Senior Project Clerk at the SBDC.  Mr. Beltran is
currently working on completing his Associates Degree in Accounting and is
one of the original members of the Imperial Valley SBDC.  Mr. Beltran is also
bilingual, English/Spanish and has aspirations to work as a consultant after
completing his degree.  Mr. Beltran is generally the clientÂ’s first point of
contact when they solicit services from the SBDC.  He is in charge of
prescreening the clients so that later he can refer them to either a seminar
or to one of the consultants.

Anel Santiago works as the Clerical Assistant for the center.  Ms. Santiago
is a recent SBDC addition and she is in charge of maintaining the client
files as well as assisting in seminar coordination.  Ms. Santiago holds an
Associates degree as an Office Technician and is also bilingual
English/Spanish.

The consultants represent a wide body of knowledge from general Marketing to
Accounting and contract negotiations.  The majority of the consultants are
bilingual and therefore have no trouble in communicating with our diverse
population.  Furthermore, many of the consultants have either owned small
businesses themselves or else they have worked with small business owners
over the years.  In addition to their role as consultants, many of the
consultants engage in public speaking for the SBDC or for other organizations
giving seminars and classes on issues effecting small businesses in the area.




    Small Business Development Center


    1240 State Street,  El Centro, CA   95202
    (760) 312-9800   fax(760) 312-9800


    E-mail:  ivsbdc@quix.net


                                              Designed & Developed By:


                                              [0006021.gif]
