http://pr.aoa.gov/elderpage.html


Skip Navigational Links Home Quick Index Site Index What's New Search
                                                                      E-Mail AoA

   Administration on Aging --

ElderPage: Information for Older Persons and Families
   _____________________________________________________________________

   This image and the ones below show a diverse group of older persons at
    home, at work, in leisure pursuits, and with family and friends. This
             image shows an older woman holding a young a child.
                             older man bicycling
                                 older woman
                two older men behind the counter of a bakery
                          older woman with knitting
                          older American Indian man
                           older man wearing a hat
   older man standing in front of storefront with sign in Chinese letters
                    older man showing tomatoes in garden
                older man with cane walking with younger man
                             older man with dog
                     older woman hugged by younger woman
        older man showing American Indian drum to two young children
                        older man wearing a straw hat
                                  older man
                     older man with beard wearing a hat
             group of men sitting in a park with pigeons nearby

                               [ball_red.gif]

Colon Cancer Prevention Campaign - from the American Cancer Society and the
Advertising Council

                               [ball_red.gif]
   Winter Fire Safety:  Tips for the Home

                               [ball_red.gif]

Because We Care - A Guide for People Who Care

   [ball_red.gif]

Eldercare Locator - How to contact local agencies who can help you obtain
services - New Online Version new available!

   [ball_red.gif]

Resource Directory for Older People (Directory of organizations who provide
information on relevant topics to the public)

   [ball_red.gif]

About AoA and the Aging Network including:

     * State Agencies on Aging (with hyperlinks where available),
     * LTC Ombudsman Programs, and
     * Area Agencies on Aging with Web Sites

   FirstGov for Seniors logo

FirstGov for Seniors (www.seniors.gov) - the Federal web site for seniors to
access many services

   [ball_red.gif]

ElderAction: Ideas for Older Persons and Their Families Electronic booklets
on major topics such as retirement living, home modification, transportation,
caregiving, etc.

   [ball_red.gif]

AoA Fact Sheets - Fact sheets on a range of issues

   [ball_red.gif]

National Institute on Aging Age Pages (a highly informative series of 2-4
page booklets mostly on health topics)

   [ball_red.gif] Women and Aging Letters

   Informative publications in newsletter format developed by the National
   Policy and Resource Center on Women and Aging):
     * Health News for Women
     * 500 Women Speak Out: Financial Plans and Financial Planners
     * Driving Safely: Does Age Matter?
     * Over-the-Counter Drugs: Safe if Used Wisely
     * Identifying and Coping with Depression
     * Reverse Mortgages: A Solution to the "House-Rich, Cash-Poor"
       Problem?
     * Financial Planning: Finding Someone You Can Trust
     * Should I Buy LTC Insurance?
     * Half of America's Women Are Not Getting the Mammograms They Should
     * Confronting the Question of Moving
     * Memory Loss--It's Not Inevitable

   See also: The PowerCenter, a collaboration between the National Center
   on Women & Aging and WISER -- Women's Institute for a Secure Retirement
   [ball_red.gif]

Talking With Your Doctor: A Guide for Older People (NIA Publication on the
NIA web site)

   [ball_red.gif]

Retirement and Financial Planning: Online Resources -- links to useful
sources (mostly off-site -- note disclaimer) which cover such issues as how
to plan for and enjoy retirement, how to calculate your financial needs and
resources and much more

                              [LTWHITEAPP.GIF]

Healthfinder - The consumer health and human services information web site
from the United States government

   cornerstone.gif (18158 bytes)

Mental Health: The Cornerstone of Health" -  Mental health information
related to the U.S. Dept. of HHS (off site)

   [ball_red.gif]

Prescription Medicines and You -- from the Agency for Health Care Policy and
Research and the National Council on Patient Information Education

   [ball_red.gif]

My Medicines: FDA Brochure on Using Medicines Wisely

   [ball_red.gif]

Housing Highlights -- Information for consumers on key elderly housing
concerns:

     * Home Modification and Repair
     * Accessory Units
     * Assisted Living
     * Government Assisted Housing
     * Shared Housing
     * What are Your Rights
     * and more

Developed by the National Resource and Policy Center on Housing and Long Term
Care (now  the National Resource Center on Supportive Housing and Home
Modification)

   [ball_red.gif]

Legal Hotlines for Older Americans

   [ball_red.gif]

You Can Make a Difference! Help stop fraud, waste, and abuse in Medicare and
other health care programs

   [ball_red.gif]

Alzheimer's Disease Resource Room - information for families, caregivers, and
professionals about Alzheimer's disease, caregiving, working with and
providing services to persons with Alzheimer's Disease, and where you can
turn for support and assistance

   [ball_red.gif]

Early Alzheimer's Disease: Clinical Practice Guideline, Patient and Family
Guide from the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research

   [ball_red.gif]

Guide to Choosing a Nursing Home The HHS guide on this critical issue (on the
Federal consumer Information Center - Pueblo, Colorado - web site)

   [ball_red.gif]

Pension Search Directory -- This US Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation's
Pension Search Directory lists the names of people who have worked long
enough to earn a pension benefit, but could no longer be located by their
companies. Maybe you'll find your own name or the name of someone you know.
If so, let them know they may be owed money!

   [ball_red.gif]

National Center on Elder Abuse Fact Sheets and other information on elder
abuse

   [ball_red.gif]

National Fraud Information Center - Learn how to protect yourself as well as
to report suspect fraud
See also: Internet Fraud Complaint Center - to report Internet Fraud

   [ball_red.gif]

National Women's Health Information Center

   [ball_red.gif]

Health-Center.Com: Senior Center - an HHS funded project to provide the
latest medical and health information in an easy-to-use format

   [ball_red.gif]

Safety Publications for Older Consumers from the US Consumer Product Safety
Commission including: Safety For Older Consumers: Home Safety Checklist

   [ball_red.gif]

Other Federal Resources and Programs for the Aging

     * www.medicare.gov - the Official US Government Medicare Information
       Site; includes Medicare Compare, a database of managed care plans
       and the Medicare & You 2000 booklet [in PDF format - click here for
       information about this format]
     * Social Security Administration - includes Benefit Information
     * Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly the Health Care
       Financing Administration) - includes Consumer Publications and
       www.medicare.gov -- see also: Medicare Basics
     * National Institute on Aging
     * MedlinePlus - Health Information - a very valuable source of the
       latest health information from the National Library of Medicine,
       NIH
     * Health Information Clearinghouses
     * U.S. Consumer Gateway (Federal Trade Commission)
     * Veterans Administration - includes VA Health Care Programs for
       Senior Veterans
     * GSA Consumer Information Center (Pueblo Colorado)
     * National Senior Service Corps (Volunteer opportunities for seniors)
     * Family and Medical Leave Act (Information from the Labor Department
       about this law which includes the right to unpaid leave to take an
       elderly relative to a regular doctor's appointment)

See also: Federal Agencies: Consumer Information and Benefit Programs for
Older Adults (in the Web Sites on Aging) for more about Federal Agency links.

   [ball_red.gif]

Statistical Information on the Aging -- key statistical information on the
elderly with links to the world of online statistical data

   [ball_red.gif]

Exercise: A Guide From the National Institute on Aging and NASA (on the NASA
web site)

   bdm075.gif (5525 bytes)

Disaster Recovery Information  - including: Fact Sheet on Disaster Services
and the Elderly; Information on SBA Loans and more

   [ball_red.gif]

Images of the Aging -- Photos from Aging Magazine

   [ball_red.gif]

Other Internet Resources on Aging

   [ball_red.gif]

Tips: Talking to the Hard-of-Hearing

   [ball_red.gif]

Caution advised on "One Year Noncallable" CDs by the Securities Exchange
Commission [also by financial columnist Jane Bryant Quinn] (off site)

   [ball_red.gif]

AoA International Aging Page

   [ball_red.gif]

Resources for New Users of the Internet - links to sites offering online
tutorials and other instructions for beginning users - No experience
Required!

   [ball_red.gif]

Useful Links for the Elderly (and others) -- Not strictly Aging

   [ball_red.gif]

Medicare Rights Center Web Site (off-site - for your information only - Not
Government sponsored)

   [ball_red.gif]

Free Eye Care for Low Income Seniors (Off Site - for your information only -
Not a Government Program)

[Flag.gif] How to Become a U. S. Citizen

   [ball_red.gif]

Older Americans Month:

     * May, 2001: The Many Faces of Aging
     * May, 2000:  In the Next Century... the Future is Aging
     * May, 1999: Honor the Past, Imagine the Future: Towards a Society
       for All Ages
     * May, 1998: Living Longer Growing Stronger in America
     * May, 1997: Caregiving: Compassion in Action

                               [Redindex.gif]

Quick Index ---  Site Index ---  Search

                                   warning

Disclaimer
   _____________________________________________________________________

  button gif ElderAction: Ideas for Older Persons and Their Families

     * Fitness Facts for Older Americans
     * Home Modification and Repair
     * Decisions about Retirement Living
     * Transportation Services: Where to get them in Your Community
     * Volunteer Opportunities
     * Looking Out for Depression
     * Vaccinations -- Aren't Just Kid Stuff
     * Eye on the Prize
   _____________________________________________________________________

  [icons_bt.gif] National Institute on Aging Age Pages

     * HIV, AIDS, and Older People
     * Aging and Alcohol Abuse
     * Arthritis Advice
     * Cancer Facts for people over 50
     * Choosing A Doctor
     * Considering Surgery
     * Constipation
     * Crimes and the Elderly
     * Dealing with Diabetes
     * Depression: A Serious but Treatable Illness
     * Exercise:  Feeling Fit For Life
     * Aging and Your Eyes
     * What to do About Flu
     * Foot Care
     * Forgetfulness: Its Not Always What You Think
     * Accidental Hypothermia The Cold Can Be Trouble for Older People
     * Health Quackery
     * Hearing and Older People
     * High Blood Pressure: A Common But Controllable Disorder
     * Hormone Replacement Therapy
     * Hospital Hints
     * Life Extension: Science or Science Fiction?
     * Planning for Long Term
     * Medicines: Use Them Safely
     * Menopause
     * Older Drivers
     * Osteoporosis: The bone Thinner
     * Prostate Problems
     * Sexuality in Later Life
     * Shots for Safety
     * Skin Care and Aging
     * A Good Nights Sleep
     * Smoking Its Never Too Late To Stop
     * Stroke: Prevention and Treatment
     * Taking Care of Your Teeth and Mouth
     * Urinary Incontinence

    -- More Age Pages (off-site, reproduced by non-governmental organizations)
    -- in Graphic Image or HTML formats

    How to order hard copies of these and other health information publications
    from NIA
   _____________________________________________________________________

[BDG003EARTHROTMED.GIF] Useful Links for the Elderly (and others) -- Not
strictly Aging
(off-site - note disclaimer below)

   The Virtual Reference Desk
   http://thorplus.lib.purdue.edu/reference
   Includes links to a wide variety of resources including dictionaries,
   telephone directories (e.g., the ATT 800 No. Directory), zip codes,
   maps & travel information, and many other references materials.

   The Internet Public Library
   http://www.ipl.org/
   Includes a reference division, a classroom, an exhibit hall, and a
   reading room. The Ready Reference Collection contains links to selected
   net documents in such areas as: General Reference, Business/Economics,
   Computers, Education, Government & Law, Health & Nutrition, Humanities,
   Internet, News/Current Events, Science, Social Issues & Social
   Services. You can also search the Ready Reference Collection by
   keywords. or use the Ask a Question service and visit the IPL
   Interactive Virtual Environment.

   My Virtual Newspaper
   http://www.refdesk.com/paper.html
   Links to online newspapers nationwide and around the world.

   WeatherNet
   http://cirrus.sprl.umich.edu/wxnet/
   Provides access to thousands of forecasts, images, and the Net's
   largest collection of weather links; states that it is the most
   comprehensive and up-to-date source of weather data on the Web.
   Includes a simple to use search engine for the latest NOAA forecast for
   each area as well as satellite images and more.

   Encyclopedia.com
   http://www.encyclopedia.com
   Contains more than 17,000 articles from The Concise Columbia Electronic
   Encyclopedia, Third Edition have been assembled to provide free, quick
   and useful information on almost any topic. The entries are short with
   extensive cross-references. Also provides convenient links to related
   web sites and books.

   Yahoo! People Search
   http://people.yahoo.com/
   Permits queries of a database said to contain 90+ million addresses,
   telephone numbers, and web pages.

   Switchboard
   http://www2.switchboard.com/
   A free, searchable, nationwide online directory of residential and
   business telephone numbers. Users can also add their e-mail addresses
   to their listings.

   InfoPlease.Com
   http://www.infoplease.com/
   Reference site for information on many, many topics, organized by
   topical "almanacs" but includes an encyclopedia and dictionary as
   well.  Searchable by browsing or by a search engine.
   Ask Jeeves
   http://www.askjeeves.com/
   Users enter their questions in ordinary English and Jeeves responds.  A
   very useful and of course easy to use search engine which permits
   moderately complex queries without formal logic.

   MapQuest
   http://www.mapquest.com/
   Provides interactive mapping and driving directions which guide users
   to their destinations as well as many other related services.

   AOL Government Guide
   http://www.governmentguide.com/
   AOL's consumer portal to government services.  The Benefits and
   Assistance section includes a section for seniors Other sections
   include Consumer Services, Health and Safety, Home and Community, Tax
   Center, Travel and Passports, and more.

   AOL's MyGovernment
   http://government.aol.com
   Identifies one's Federal, State, and local government elected
   officials; enables users to send them email and track voting records of
   Members of Congress, find contact persons, addresses and telephone
   numbers for agencies.
   Web Teacher
   http://www.webteacher.org
   An outstanding tutorial and reference site for beginners and
   intermediate users.  Clear and easy to navigate, it includes a Web
   Primer and a Web Tutorial covering all the basics: Getting Started, Web
   Browsers, Addresses, Navigation, Electronic Mail, Telnet , FTP, Finding
   Things, Newsgroups, Mail Lists, and much more.

   Locating Records & Property (from ElderWeb)
   http://www.elderweb.com/default.php3?PageID=882
   May be especially useful for children assisting their aging parents;
   includes:
     * Locating Birth, Death, and Marriage Certificates
     * Locating Citizenship Paperwork
     * Locating Military Records
     * Locating Pension and SS Benefits
     * Locating Unclaimed Property

   Dietary Guidelines for Americans
   _____________________________________________________________________

   warning Disclaimer: References from this web page or from any of the
   information services sponsored by AoA to any non-governmental entity,
   product, service or information does not constitute an endorsement or
   recommendation by the Administration on Aging or any of its employees.
   AoA is not responsible for the contents of any "off-site" web pages
   referenced from this server. Although our page includes links to sites
   including or referencing good collections of information, AoA does not
   endorse ANY specific products or services provided by public or private
   organizations. By using this site, the user takes full responsibility
   for any use of these links.
   _____________________________________________________________________

   red ball Go to Top of Page          [ball_red.gif] Go to Quick Index
   red ball Go to top of AoA Home Page [ball_red.gif] Go to Site Index
   [ball_red.gif] Go to What's New
   _____________________________________________________________________

     * Requests for information about aging issues and programs should be
       directed to aoainfo@aoa.gov.
     * Comments about the AoA Web Site may directed to webmanager@aoa.gov.
     * Access:  Assistance for Persons with Disabilities in Accessing this
       web site
   _____________________________________________________________________
